# Hi! I'm Gabriel Falcão

I heard some time that [Hemmingway](https://quoteinvestigator.com/2016/09/21/write-drunk/) said "Write drunk, edit sober" or something like that.

Well, **thread carefully** because this very page hasn't been edited _for sure_!

## My history as a computer programmer

I am a brazilian software engineer. I started coding around age 12 at
a moment in time where I did not have a videogame. Instead I had a
black-and-white monitor and which I my dad and I used for setting up
new machines that we assembled from scratch. I was 9 when I started
working with computers to help my family make a some extra money.

Anyhoo, I did not have a videogame and no real graphics card so I was
pretty bored when I instinctively started digging around the features
of the operating system I had in hands: Windows 9... something or
perhaps was Windows ME. I really don't remember for sure.

What I sort of remember is that because I could not see colors I
started building stuff. I'm a creative person, a very sensitive human
that had the privilege of growing up with a lot of love rather than a
lot of money.

I feel like mind is wildly curious, dare I say indomitable (Though I
[don't have a lot of confidence](https://pyvideo.org/djangocon-us-2010/djangocon-2010--lightning-talks---day-1.html) of my english or at least people have
doubted my abilities in the past but at the current times I am
certainly recognized or so it seams).

But I digress (again, sorry) - what I mean to say is that I always
loved learning and I grew up with a great sense of love and justice
which I definitely have taken for granted sometimes but the very act
of writing this is one that attempts to serve as a reminder for myself
that LOVE is the greatest thing and I shall never forget to cherrish
it again.

Using my monochromatic monitor I was left with few options of how to
play with my computer so I got curious about the software in which
most people rarely found interest in: Microsoft Access 97 (Now that I
think about it, I was probably using windows 95 or 98. I guess.)

I liked to play with paintbrush when I had a colored monitor, making
random scratches then cutting, copying, pasting, flipping horizontally
or vertically and/or rotating it in an intuitive attempts to create visually appealing
and geometrically sound figures. (I seem to be attracted to multi-dimensionality)

But I always wondered what was beneath the surface of the user-interface. More precisely little 9 year old mind wondered: "How programs are made?"

Instead of painting mere pictures I wanted to learn how to design
software, as it were.  So while digging around the Microsoft Office 97
suite, bored with a monochromatic monitor, I opened MS Access and
found a little feature called "Forms" (in portuguese I think it was translated to Formulários).

Anyway, the thing is that it presented me with a similar interface as
that of MS Paint, except that instead of a brush, bucket of paint,
pens, pencils, erasers or clipboard-specific tools like magic wands MS
Access 97 gave me a window rather than a canvas - comparatively to MS
Paint - and the tools were button, text boxes, radio boxes, check boxes and so on.

Once I dragged-and-dropped a button, say, on the empty window canvas
and double-clicked it, a new interface would appear overimposed with
code that clearly referenced whatever UI element had been drawn.

My mind was blown - good job Microsoft for blowing my mind at 12 years old.

But I was sort of stunned because I didn't know what to write, it's as
if as a child I was already wrestling with a blank page, except that
it begged to write code beneath the canvas.

The coolest thing is that there was a feature called "Form Wizard"
where it presented sort of templates - cookie cutter style I suppose -
where it guided me through visually attaching actions to UI elements.

As a 9 year old my job was to teach adults how to use a computer. I
could feel how older people felt intimidated by the technology but I
was always rather inspired by it. So I told them something along the
lines of: Let me show you the basics - here is how you make a business
card, or a banner or a gift card. Here is how you paint, wanna play
solitarie? Here you go. Lots of people seemed to like landmines, I
always thought it was super boring. But hey, who was I to judge?! I
was just a boy. (In my mind I still feel like one).

The adults I was teaching seemed to take notes, I thought it was weird
because it was so intuitive to me - little did I know that I had
several hours of deliberate practice (though I didn't know this
concept at the time)

So when Microsoft Access provided me with a simple way to attach
actions to UI elements I felt the thought coming: "Eureka! Instead of
guiding people through the operating system UI I created a my own UI
with lots of buttons, grouped by kinds or sorts of categories such as
"games" or "entertainment" or "utilities".

I made sure to help people find their way with as little trouble as
possible - which in retrospect I think was an act of compassion.

When I double-clicked the generated buttons that executed other
programs it would show me the code that was generated.

If memory serves, I think that the code was a sort of dialect of
Visual Basic 5 or 6 - based in english, obviously. So in a way I
learned english backwards, because I would read code and try to make
sense of it. I was pretty bored at school because trying to decypher
generated code gave me an intense feeling of reward - one could dare
to call it dopamine dispensing.

I would spend several hours looking at the code and trying to make
sense of it, I remember that at the beginning I spent several days
trying to make sense of the code generated by a single button.

Because I learned backwards and having no access to books - especially
not in portuguese - I didn't know the concept of a variable, but
instinct told me I needed to store value somewhere, so I would draw
text boxes on the UI, set their "visible" property to "false" and in
the code I would store text in those hidden boxes.

Eventually I learned that it was counter-intuitive and that I could
simply declare a "variable" which was much more efficient and
generally better because variables could be typed and so instead of
just strings I could play with numbers though I have no real
mathematical skills (I was day-dreaming of coding during classes)

I intend to try and run Visual Basic 6 in Windows ME within a virtual
machine and record a screencast to go down memory lane in an effort to
share my way of thinking.

If you're interested in that sort of thing or the rest of my story or
simply want to support me in grattitude for open-source projects or
whatever, please consider donating to my Patreon or Ko-Fi.

I have also been thinking of streaming live-coding sessions on YouTube
or Twitch, so if you're interested please consider donating.

See you later, Aligator!
